# -Master-s-Thesis

# A Deep Learning based Multi-Food Detection Utilizing a Modified Swin-Transformer and Recursive Feature Pyramid Network

## English Abstract
Humans need food, and food detection systems are a fascinating research topic, as well as a complex mechanism of weight loss. A healthy and balanced diet is essential. Research on food-related tasks has progressed in the past few years, but existing systems can only handle single and multiple foods by using convolutional neural networks (CNNs), while recent developments in computer vision Transformers have outperformed well-known networks such as ResNet 50, VGG 16, etc., but Transformer-based methods are limited in food-related tasks. To address this problem, we improved the Swin Transformer-based method by utilizing transformer and CNN, and we proposed a new multi-food detection method using the improved Swin-Transformer and a recursive feature called (MFD-MST) and The Swin Pyramid network-Transformer Spatial Extraction block (STSE) is used as the backbone to identify multiple foods in the image to improve the local and structural information of the image, and RFP is used as the neck to enhance this feature representation to identify multiple foods. STSE solves the transformer position encoding, while RFP can look at the feature map twice, helping the model to build a powerful representation. A prominent dataset UEC-FOOD 100, Indian Food 28, UEC-FOOD 256 was extensively tested to build a detection system that can distinguish various objects in food photos and classify them into food categories. The evaluation measures of our models vary. On the three food datasets, MFD-MST outperforms Swin-Transformer by 2.7% and 3.3%, respectively, and AP[0.50] is 1.4% higher. Test results show that our system can accurately detect food.


Code will be released soon...........
